  It started out as just another Saturday.  April 26, 1986.  John R.
MacDougall, 25, spent the day alone at his satellite TV dealership in Ocala,
Florida, waiting for customers who never came.  "It was," he says, "a normal
day in the doldrums of the satellite TV industry." But that night, MacDougall,
5 feet 11, 225 pounds, and prone to nervously running his fingers through his
reddish blond hair and adjusting his glasses, would transform into Captain
Midnight and set the world of satellite television spinning.

  Business had been flat since January 15, when Home Box Office became the
first pay TV service to scramble its signal full time.  Other services were
following HBO's lead.  Dish owners were balking at the cost of descramblers and
program fees.  Potential customers were confused and stayed away in droves.The
1985 boom in dish sales had simply petered out, and MacDougall Electronics, in
business for just two-and-a-half years, had seen its early profits disappear.

  American Dream

  MacDougall had stopped advertising and turned off his air-conditioner to save
money.  With no customers, he idled away the day watching TV and reading
magazines.  Later, he would say, "I have been watching the great American dream
slip from my grasp."

  To make ends meet, MacDougall spent his evenings moonlighting as a part-time
operations engineer at Central Florida Teleport, a local company that uplinks
services to satellites.  He was a natural electronics engineer.  A good
student, he had spent his spare time during his teenage years tinkering with CB
radios and automobiles.  With some pals, he rebuilt a 1923 Ford roadster that
he still owns.  He had dropped out of a management engineering course at
Worcester Polytechnical Institute in Massachusetts after two years, but his
first job was installing satellite TV dishes."My father used to tell me I would
need to get a job where I would be able to make money by watching TV just
because I liked TV so much," he says.  At Central Florida Teleport, he could do
just that.  At 4 p.m.  on that Saturday, MacDougall shut up shop.  He stopped
at his home, where he lived alone, picked up a sandwich for supper, and then
reported to the teleport.  After two hours, a second engineer went off duty and
MacDougall was alone in the small building that is flanked on one side by five
large satellite dishes.

  As the end of his shift drew near, MacDougall was absently watching Pee-Wee's
Big Adventure, a movie he was uplinking for the now-defunct pay-per-view
service, People's Choice.  But something else was on his mind.  When the film
ended, MacDougall went through the normal routine.  Before logging off, he set
up color bars and punched buttons to swing the giant 30 foot dish he'd been
using to its resting place.  That was necessary because the soil beneath the
dish's cement pad is sandy clay.  Rainfall could throw it off-kilter, but by
setting it in a certain way the rain runs harmlessly into a gutter.  At its
resting place, the dish points directly at the satellite Galaxy 1.
Transpondedr 23 on that satellite carries the eastern feed of HBO.  "That's
when I decided to do it,"says MacDougall.  "It wasn't like I thought about it,
'Yes.  No.  Yes.  No.' It was just, 'Yeah!'" He scrolled up a character
generator, and electronic keyboard that puts letters across the TV screen, and
tried to think what to write.  "I didn't know exactly how to start it," he
says.  "I wrote 'Goodevening." I wanted to be polite.  I didn't want it to be
vulgar or call them names or anything.  That's not my style."

  He spent a couple of minutes composing his message.  The idea of using the
name Captain Midnight, he says, "just popped into my mind." He had recently
seen a movie with that title about a teenager who had a pirate radio station in
his van.  Now HBO was airing the Sean Penn and Timothy Hutton espionage movie,
The Falcon and the Snowman.  It was at 12:32 a.m.  Sunday, April 27, that John
R.  MacDougall pushed the transmit button on his console and turned into
Captain Midnight.  "That's